# Notes

## Stable versions

### Development versions

### Compiling Scribus

On linux the best way for getting 1.5.4svn is by fetching the svn or git
code and compiling it yourself.

- the official svn co svn://scribus.net/trunk/Scribus scribus15
- or half official git checkout
  git@github.com:scribusproject/scribus.git

### Snapshots

#### Appimage

- get the latest link to the appimages generated by travis http://impagina.org/download and download the appimage.
- Make the appimage executable (with a file manager, right click on the file, edit its properties and set its run/execute flag ...)
- Run it by double clicking it

Warning:
- currently you seem to need libpython2 installed on your system
- appimages are for 64 bit systems

### Flatpak

You can get flatpak images from: http://drjurf.tk/scribus-flatpak/

### Ubuntu and PPA

- Open the open a terminal window. If you don't know what is the terminal, please read this https://askubuntu.com/questions/38162/what-is-a-terminal-and-how-do-i-open-and-use-it (TODO: explain how to add a ppa source without the terminal)
- type: `sudo add-apt-repository ppa:scribus/ppa`
- if it asks you to import the PPA's key, confirm with the enter key.
- update your software list: `sudo apt-get update`
- Now install scribus 1.5.3: `sudo apt-get install scribus-ng`
- search for scribus in the menu & enjoy.

## Where are the preference files?

On Linux, the preferences are in

`~/.config/scribus`

## Hidpi / hdpi

for multiple sides, we have reports that, since the support for hdpi has been activated, the size of the toolbars icons are too big.

setting

QT_SCALE_FACTOR=0

disables the auto scaling and, then, i'm back to the tiny icons that are completely unusable.

when the autoscaling is disabled,

export QT_AUTO_SCREEN_SCALE_FACTOR=2

gives me a sane value.

(when autoscaling is enabled, the factor seems to be 3)
